
# Pen test classification

There are four major categories of penetration testing:

- **Physical penetration testing** focuses on identifying and exploiting vulnerabilities in an organization's physical security controls. This can include breaking into buildings, bypassing access control systems, or compromising surveillance systems. The primary objective of physical penetration testing is to assess the effectiveness of an organization's physical security measures in preventing unauthorized access to their facilities, equipment, and sensitive information
- **Offensive penetration testing** is a proactive approach where security professionals act as attackers to identify and exploit vulnerabilities in an organization's networks, systems, and applications. The goal of offensive penetration testing is to simulate real-world cyberattacks and determine how well an organization can detect, respond to, and recover from these attacks.
- **Defensive penetration testing** focuses on evaluating an organization's ability to defend against cyberattacks. Unlike offensive penetration testing, which aims to exploit vulnerabilities, defensive penetration testing involves assessing the effectiveness of security policies, procedures, and technologies in detecting and mitigating threats.
- **Integrated penetration testing** combines aspects of both offensive and defensive testing to provide a comprehensive assessment of an organization's security posture. This approach involves close collaboration between offensive and defensive experts to identify vulnerabilities, simulate attacks, and evaluate the effectiveness of defensive measures.

Once the type of assessment is known, one of the first things to decide about a penetration test is how much knowledge testers will have about the environment. Three typical classifications are used to describe this:

- **Known environment** tests are tests performed with full knowledge of the underlying technology, configurations, and settings that make up the target. Testers will typically have such information as network diagrams, lists of systems and IP network ranges, and even credentials to the systems they are testing. Known environment tests allow for effective testing of systems without requiring testers to spend time identifying targets and determining which may be a way in. This means that a known environment test is often more complete, since testers can get to every system, service, or other target that is in scope, and will have credentials and other materials that will allow them to be tested. Of course, since testers can see everything inside an environment, they may not provide an accurate view of what an external attacker would see, and controls that would have been effective against most attackers may be bypassed.
- **Unknown environment** tests are intended to replicate what an attacker would encounter. Testers are not provided with access to or information about an environment, and instead, they must gather information, discover vulnerabilities, and make their way through an infrastructure or systems like an attacker would. This approach can be time-consuming, but it can help provide a reasonably accurate assessment of how secure the target is against an attacker of similar or lesser skill. It is important to note that the quality and skillset of your penetration tester or team is very important when conducting an unknown environment penetration test—if the threat actor you expect to target your organization is more capable, a tester can't provide you with a realistic view of what they could do. 
- **Partially known environment** tests are a blend of known and unknown environment testing. A partially known environment test may provide some information about the environment to the penetration testers without giving full access, credentials, or configuration details. A partially known environment test can help focus penetration testers’ time and effort while also providing a more accurate view of what an attacker would actually encounter.

> [!info] Note
> Be sure that you can differentiate and explain the four major categories and three classification types of penetration testing. The categories are physical penetration testing, offensive penetration testing, defensive penetration testing, and integrated penetration testing. The classification types are known environment tests, unknown environment tests, and partially known environment tests. You should be able to read a scenario describing a test and identify the type(s) of test being discussed. 


