The term script kiddie is a derogatory term for unskilled attackers who use hacking techniques but have limited skills. Often such attackers may rely almost entirely on automated tools they download from the Internet. These attackers often have little knowledge of how their attacks actually work, and they are simply seeking out convenient targets of opportunity.

You might think that with their relatively low skill level, unskilled attackers are not a real security threat. However, that isn't the case for two important reasons. First, simplistic hacking tools are freely available on the Internet. If you're vulnerable to them, anyone can easily find tools to automate denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, create viruses, make a Trojan horse, or even distribute ransomware as a service. Personal technical skills are no longer a barrier to attacking a network. 

Second, unskilled attackers are plentiful and unfocused in their work. Although the nature of your business might not find you in the crosshairs of a sophisticated military-sponsored attack, unskilled attackers are much less discriminating in their target selection. They often just search for and discover vulnerable victims without even knowing the identity of their target. They might root around in files and systems and only discover who they've penetrated after their attack succeeds. 

In general, the motivations of unskilled attackers revolve around trying to prove their skill. In other words, they may attack your network simply because it is there. Secondary school and university networks are common targets of unskilled attackers attacks because many of these attackers are school-aged individuals.

Fortunately, the number of unskilled attackers is often offset by their lack of skill and lack of resources. These individuals tend to be rather young, they work alone, and they have very few resources. And by resources, we mean time as well as money. An unskilled attacker normally can't attack your network 24 hours a day. They usually have to work a job, go to school, and attend to other life functions.
